---
title: "Central"
date: "2018-10-19"
categories: 
  - "restaurants"
tags: 
  - "central"
  - "lima"
  - "peru"
  - "restaurants"
featured_image: "images/DSC00918.jpg"
---
Central is a high-end restaurant in Lima, well known for being on the
San Pellegrino "Worlds 50 Best Restaurants" list. It's supposed to be
one of the most difficult reservations to get in Lima, but we managed
by walking over during the day and asking at the front desk if they
had anything open in the next two months. They found a lunch for us in
the next week so off we went!

Central is aggressively and delightfully Peruvian. The dishes use
Peruvian ingredients, many of them locally sourced. The menu is called
"Mater Elevations" and is organized by regions at different
elevations, and the ingredients from them.

Rather than walk through the menu, dish by dish, I'll describe what
it's like. The space is very modern, clean, light and airy. The dishes
come usually in groups of three for each "elevation" and usually
combine beautiful presentation in line with the region as well as
clever preparations that showcase technique, ingredients, and are
delicious to boot. The presentations are reminiscent of the regions,
so the seabed course is served on actual gooseneck barnacles, the
"Amazonian Waters" piranha crackers are serve on frozen piranha heads,
the tubers are on plates that refer back to terraced mountain fields,
and so on. The unusual ingredients are more than a gimmick, in each
region there is a balance between the comfortably familiar, and the
challengingly new. Baked native potato with a pesto of a herb
completely new to me. Cocoa bean with a gel made from the mucilage of
the cocoa pod and served with a coca leaf granita.

At the end I felt like I'd had a world class degustation, but also
taken on a tour of Peru and shown ingredients that I'd never seen or
heard of before - deliciously. When the Spanish came back from the
"new world", they brought potatoes, peppers, avocados, corn, tomatoes,
beans, pineapple, squash, and chocolate. As it turns out, there are
even more things that have so far escaped the world's attention - and
they're delicious.

{{< gallery
      embedPreview="true"
      lastRow="nojustify"
      margin="5"
      match="images/*"
      previewType="blur"
      resizeOptions="150x150"
      rowHeight="150"
      showExif=true
>}}
