---
title: "Rafael"
date: "2018-11-11"
categories: 
  - "restaurants"
tags: 
  - "lima"
  - "peru"
  - "rafael-osterling"
featured_image: "images/Lima-Rafael-Basque-cheese-tart.jpg"
---
### The Chef

Rafael Osterling didn't start off to be a chef. He was going to be a
lawyer. As the son of the leader of one of Peru's political parties he
was trained to be a diplomat. Though he always had a love of cooking
and a talent for it, his family discouraged it so he always expected
to go into public service. Then came Fujimori's 1992 _autogolpe_ and
everything changed. With his father under house arrest, and  tanks
outside of their house, a diplomatic career seemed less likely and he
was free to pursue his first love.

Now, 25 years later, he's one of the most gifted chefs in Peru and his
restaurant "Rafael" in Lima is his crown jewel. Rafael the restaurant
is not a "molecular gastronomy" place. It's a traditional gourmet
restaurant with an a la carte menu, white tablecloths, crystal and a
European inspired menu organized into appetizers, pasta, fish, and
meat.

### The Dishes

While the menu be inspired by Europe, there is a love for Peru and its
food. Ceviche and tiradito are there as well as "European" dishes with
peruvian ingredients. For example, the tiradito has the elements of
traditional tiradito, thinly sliced fish dressed in an acidic citrus
based marinade, but it also uses sliced butter beans instead of
_choclo_, and piped sweet potato puree for a more refined
presentation.

We also had fried sweetbreads and pea puree, classically British, but
served with hard boiled quail eggs, typically Peruvian. Our pasta
course, pasta alla chitarra, was a traditionally Italian dish but an
Italian would not make it with Peruvian sea urchin. Still the creamy
briny sea urchin sets off the pasta perfectly. Finally the fish, a
roasted grouper with spicy rice, was another classic recipe executed
with local ingredients. Our two desserts a basque cheese tart and
"tumbao" (similar to an Eton mess) stuck more to their traditional
inspirations but still used local ingredients like chirimoya that
you'd never find in Europe.

### Conclusion

Rafael serves an delicious combination of Peruvian ingredients with
European technique and flair. The service is friendly and
helpful. Overall it's comfortable fine dining environment.

{{< gallery >}}
